# Collaborative Discussions
In the previous module I felt underwhelmed at the levels of engagament from my fellow coursemates. I came into this module hoping that the experience would improve but unfortunately found it to again fall flat of what I believe the discussions could be. 

## Experience
The primary, and most obvious, reason I feel that the discussions don't live up to their potential is that the levels of engagement are too low. In both discussions the only response I got was from the tutor. While I felt that this was useful, I feel that the opportunity to take feedback and questions from a fellow student would no doubt allow for both of us to learn more. I wanted to look into this further, so researched the topic of inidividual and collabaorative learning to see if there is academic backing to my own feelings. A study conducted by Chi et al. (2008) investigated alternative learning environments, such as the one I find myself in for this course. By grouping participants they were able to analyse the effectiveness of different learning styles. They found that those who collaboratively observed tutoring learned more than those who observed tutoring alone, giving credit to my own hypothesis. However I found it interesting to read that those learning collaboratively were as effective as individuals being tutored one-to-one. This suggests that students engaging with eachother can themselves replicate the learning provided by a more knowledgeable tutor.

## Reflection
As I write this, I struggle to think of why engagement is so low for these discussions. I think it could be the fact that they aren't directly marked and so perhaps others simply see them as superfluous compared to the marked assignments and would rather spend their time on them.

However, I must also acknowledge that I too contribute to the lack of engagement, on which my feelings are complicated. In the previous module, I made sure to write well thought out and engaging responses that provided the original author with further questions to respond back to. Unfortunately I didn't receive responses to these and so came away from it feeling like I had wasted my time, ultimately tainting my eagerness to contribute in this module.

On the one hand, I shouldn't let the lack of participation from others hold back my own learning and perhaps by continuing to engage, others will be more likely to themselves. However they are meant to be collaborative and so far this has been missing for me, instead feeling as if I am posting into the void to never get a response. 

What I did appreciate in this module's discussions though was the tutor's feedback. I felt that it went above and beyond what I expected, with each post receiving a dedicated feedback video. The criticisms were fair and the constructive feedback useful.

I found the second disucssion, on the strengths and weaknesses of cryptograhpic software, to be of most interest. In particular the feedback for my post contained a short but powerful statement on how software being open source results in, perhaps paradoxically, increased security due to the Open Design Saltzer and Schroeder principle, which states that the underlying design for a piece of software should not be secret (https://nocomplexity.com/documents/securityarchitecture/architecture/saltzer_designprinciples.html). When I watched this I felt as if it perfectly captured my thoughts on how being able to reason about your design leads to increased rigour and linked back nicely to some of the comparisons I made in my "Expectations" post in relation to safety-critical software. That by predicating your design not on obscured functionality but on secure, proven processes not vulnerable to exploitation, you increase the security of your product. I found it interesting that such a small part of the feedback was able to so nicely tie many of my thoughts together.

## References
Chi, T. H. M. and Roy, M. and Hausmann, G. M. R. (2008) *Observing Tutorial Dialogues Collaboratively: Insights About Human Tutoring Effectiveness From Vicarious Learning*. Available at https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1080/03640210701863396 (Accessed: 13 July 2025).

NoComplexity. (2025) *Saltzer and Schroeder’s design principles*. Available at: https://nocomplexity.com/documents/securityarchitecture/architecture/saltzer_designprinciples.html (Accessed: 15 July 2025).